DCMAW-11008: Add test harness documentation (#408)
govuk-one-login/mobile-id-check-async: test-resources/docs/DEQUEUE.md

    - [Event validation](#event-validation)
    - [Storing events in DynamoDB](#storing-events-in-dynamodb)
    - [Returning `BatchItemFailures`](#returning-batchitemfailures)
  - [Retrieving events](#retrieving-events)

## Overview

##### Context

The async backend sends audit events to SQS as part of an asynchronous
pattern. Tests for this pattern may need to inject messages into a queue or
assert against a message on a queue. However, it is not always possible to test
responses from external interfaces of a system that has an asynchronous
architecture. This can be tested manually, but it does not guarantee the code
will work when it is part of a deployment pipeline. The Dequeue events
functionality provides an automated test solution.

##### The solution

The Dequeue events functionality provides an API Gateway for use in testing to
query and retrieve events from DynamoDB.

The purpose of the Dequeue functionality is to switch from manual testing to an automated
testing strategy, providing a way to assert that TxMA audit events sent to the
backend-api SQS queue are 1) successfully added to the queue, and 2) are in the
correct shape.

> It achieves this by writing events to a database, so that they can later be
> retrieved and tested against, adding the ability to test two existing
> patterns within the async repo architecture:

Reviewer: I think we're missing that the lambda polls SQS for messages, before processing and writing them to DynamoDB 
```suggestion
It achieves this by polling SQS with a lambda and when messages are present, the lambda processes and writes the events into DynamoDB, so that they can later be
retrieved and tested against with an API. 

This adds the ability to test two existing
patterns within the async repo architecture:
```

- TxMA audit events sent to SQS
-  Messages sent to the following during handback:
    - Vendor processing queue

>     - Outbound queue for IPV

Reviewer: It's not currently possible to do this

Author: Removed

## How it works

<img src="events_flow_diagram.png">

> ###### Dequeue events flow

##

### Backend API SQS queue

> 1. #### Backend API writes to TxMA SQS

Reviewer: checking there's not supposed to be any text here?

Author: Yes, I removed the text because the heading is probably enough. Happy to add some text if needed.

##

### [Dequeue Lambda](./dequeueHandler.ts)

2. #### Lambda polls SQS for messages

The Dequeue Lambda receives events in batches when new events are added to the

> backend-api SQS queue. This is done using an [`EventSourceMapping` AWS resource](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-lambda-eventsourcemapping.html)

Reviewer: we use a combination of async backend and backend-api. Please may we be consistent

Author: Updated

(an example can be found in the [SAM template](../../../infra/dequeue/function.yaml)).

> Note: the number of TxMA events that are sent in a batch can be configuring by
specifying the `BatchSize` on the `EventSourceMapping` resource.

3. #### Event validation

The Lambda processes each event in the batch. If event validation fails, an
error is logged and the Lambda will then skip to the next event to be processed

> if one exists.

Reviewer: Please may we highlight what the event validation is? 

i.e. it validates that the event_name in the SQS message is one of the allowed values

Author: updated

> 4. #### Storing events in DynamoDB

Reviewer: Please may we add that, if a session_id is not present in the SQS message, it is saved to Dynamo with a value of `UNKNOWN`? This is to allow for events that do not contain a session_id in the event schema.

Author: Added

The Lambda saves the event to the Events table via a DynamoDB `PutItemCommand`.
This call contains the following `Item` schema:

```typescript
const putItemCommandInput: PutItemCommandInput = {
  TableName: env.EVENTS_TABLE_NAME,
  Item: marshall({
    pk: `SESSION#${sessionId}`,
    sk: `TXMA#EVENT_NAME#${eventName}#TIMESTAMP#${timestamp}`,
    event: record.body,
    timeToLiveInSeconds,
  }),
};
```

> ###### Partition Key and Sort Key
> The Partition Key (PK) and Sort Key (SK) make up the composite key use to

> > query the Events table.

Reviewer: Please may we elaborate on why this is the case? i.e. it allows for multiple types of event and event identifier

Author: Updated

An error writing to DynamoDB results in a message being logged and the
`messageId` from the current record being pushed to a `batchItemFailures` array.

If storing the event in the Events table is successful, the `event_name` and
`session_id` from that event is pushed to a `processedMessages` array, which is

> logged once all events have been processed.

Reviewer: I don't think this belongs in this section?

Author: Moved to the next step.

5. #### Returning `BatchItemFailures`

An object with `batchItemFailures` is returned from the Dequeue Lambda.
This puts events that failed to be written to DynamoDB back into the SQS queue
to be reprocessed.

> > Note: `bactchItemFailures` is an array and can be empty when returned

Reviewer: typo

Author: updated

Records being worked on by the Dequeue Lambda are considered 'in-fight' and
cannot be processed by other consumers of the backend-api SQS queue due to the
[visibility timeout](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-visibility-timeout.html).

##

### Events API

6. #### Retrieving events

Events successfully written to the Events table can be retrieved using

> the `/events` endpoint on the test-resources

Author: Added

lambda processes and writes the events into DynamoDB, so that they can later be
retrieved and tested against with an API.

## How it works

<img src="dequeue_events_diagram.png">

> ###### Dequeue events flow

##

### Backend API SQS queue

1. #### Backend API writes to TxMA SQS

##

### [Dequeue Lambda](./dequeueHandler.ts)

2. #### Lambda polls SQS for messages

The Dequeue Lambda receives events in batches when new events are added to the
backend API SQS queue. This is done using an
[`EventSourceMapping` AWS resource](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-lambda-eventsourcemapping.html)
(an example can be found in the [SAM template](../../../infra/dequeue/function.yaml)).

> Note: the number of TxMA events that are sent in a batch can be configuring by
specifying the `BatchSize` on the `EventSourceMapping` resource.

3. #### Event validation

The Lambda processes each event in the batch, checking that the `event_name`
exists in either the `allowedTxmaEventNames` or
`allowedTxmaEventNamesWithoutSessionId` array. If event validation fails, an
error is logged and the Lambda will then skip to the next event to be processed

> if one exists.

Reviewer: nit: please may we add that the event is not retained on the queue if the validation fails?

Author: Added

```typescript
const putItemCommandInput: PutItemCommandInput = {
  TableName: env.EVENTS_TABLE_NAME,
  Item: marshall({
    pk: `SESSION#${sessionId}`,
    sk: `TXMA#EVENT_NAME#${eventName}#TIMESTAMP#${timestamp}`,
    event: record.body,
    timeToLiveInSeconds,
  }),
};
```

> ###### Partition Key and Sort Key
> The Partition Key (PK) and Sort Key (SK) make up the composite key used to
> query the Events table. The structure of the keys allows for multiple types of
> event and event identifier, keeping the schema flexible for future use cases.

If a `session_id` is not present in the SQS message, it is saved to Dynamo with
a value of `UNKNOWN`. This is to allow for events that do not contain a
`session_id` in the event schema.

5. #### Returning `BatchItemFailures`

If storing the event in the Events table is successful, the `event_name` and
`session_id` from that event is pushed to a `processedMessages` array, which is
logged once all events have been processed.

If there is an error writing to DynamoDB, a message is logged and the
`messageId` from the current `Record` (the batch item containing a payload,
in this case, an audit event) is pushed to a `batchItemFailures`

> array.

Reviewer: nit: the use of `Record` feels a bit jarring here. Is it synonymous with a message or event? If it is, it might be nice to keep that nomenclature.

Author: Yeah I believe it's synonymous with 'message' and a message/record contains an event

Author: Happy to change it though

> array.

Reviewer: perhaps: ...and the `messageId` from the current event being processed is pushed to a `batchItemFailures` array?

Author: Updated

The `batchItemFailures` array is then returned in an object from the Dequeue
Lambda. This puts the events that failed to be written to DynamoDB back into the

> SQS queue to be reprocessed.

Reviewer: nit: please may we say something like:

The `batchItemFailures` array is sent in response from the Dequeue lambda. This puts...

An example failure response:

```
{ batchItemFailures: ['62ca7bbf-ae6d-47b1-9120-59bc28bbebeb', 'ea20501e-d117-4556-96ed-7c46de41d81c`] }
```

Reviewer: ^ rationale: array in an object is a bit hard to understand. an array is an object

Author: Updated

> > Note: `batchItemFailures` is an array and can be empty when returned.

Reviewer: I think we've described this enough above so can be removed

Author: Removed

> 

Reviewer: Please may we add a sentence to say something like: 

The `batchItemFailures` array only contains the messages that fail to be written to Dynamo. If there are multiple messages in a batch and some are successfully written to Dynamo, only the messages that failed to write are returned in this array. This is known as a partial batch response: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/services-sqs-errorhandling.html#services-sqs-batchfailurereporting

Author: Updated
